a tiny island lost in the midst of the
Pacific it's the tip of a huge mountain
that rises precipitously from the
seafloor thousands of meters below the
nearest land is 300 miles away
isolated seamounts like this one create
a a cease where life can flourish in the
comparatively empty expanses of the open
ocean
but all the creatures that swim beside
it would not be here were it not for one
key factor the deep ocean currents
far below the surface they collide with
the islands flanks and are deflected
upwards bringing with them from the
depths a rich soup of nutrients
such upwellings attract great
concentrations of life
[Music]
most of the fish here are permanent
residents feeding on the plankton a tiny
floating plants and animals that an
honest by the richness brought up from
the depth and they in turn attract
visitors from the open ocean
to
[Music]
[Applause]
the plankton feeders are easy targets
all this action attracts even larger
predators
sharks hundreds of sharks these silky
sharks are normally ocean-going species
but the sea mounts in the eastern
Pacific my Koko small pillow and the
Galapagos attract silk is in huge groups
up to 500 strong
[Music]
silk is seemed to specialize in taking
injured fish and constantly circle sea
mounts on the lookout for the chance to
do so
but soldiers are not the only visitors
hammerheads gather in some of the
largest shark shows to be found anywhere
in the ocean sometimes thousands will
circle over a sink or seamount
but these sharks are not here for food
they have come for another reason
some of the locals provide a cleaning
service
following the last hour Nino year when a
rise in water temperatures caused many
sharks to suffer from fungal infections
the number of hammerheads visiting the
sea mounts reached record levels
[Music]